Previously on X-Men...
My mom handed me over
to the Prime Sentinels.
They collared me. What's left here?
Me.
Living doesn't get cheat codes.
Life's a total risk and it's on you.
Take it.
You call yourselves a family?
Humanity would rather die
than have kids like us.
Missile alert!
Missile alert! Missile alert!
Jubilee!
The sky is on fire.
Leaders are working fast
to avert this mutant doomsday.
Those rebel leaders
I told you about in the future.
rambling about the adventures
of the X-Men.
those legends really didn't
do my folks justice.
Goodbye. son.
Move! School's right up ahead.
What direction now?
It's over there.
What?
No. no.
What did I tell you? The X-Men are dead
and they're never coming back.
Ferme ta guele!
Or I'll spare our ears
any more of your lip.
We need to split up.
regroup somewhere safe.
Safe? This was the safe place
for kids like us.
Don't move!
This area's restricted.
Oh. please. don't hurt us.
Don't worry. son. we won't hurt you.
We're definitely the good guys.
They call themselves "X-Factor."
The US Government's mutant task force
charged with containing global crises
in a world without the X-Men.
With unprovoked violence
against mutant youths on the rise.
Director Val Cooper is under fire
for a controversial campaign
to relocate mutants. quote.
"for their own safety."
Tão fácil.
That's three times in a row.
Dinner's on me.
I'm starting to get the hang
of this video game stuff.
Come on. Wanna play?
The X-Men wouldn't be playing around.
while the Government's
detaining mutant kids.
It doesn't help that Forge and Bishop
disappeared on us.
They'll pop up sooner or later. I promise.
And until then.
the whole world's upside down
and we're just plugging quarters
at the arcade.
Jeez. aren't you supposed to be
the peppy one?
Cable?
Just to get this straight.
you want me. Jubilee.
to be part of your...
super-secret black ops team?
I'm working on a case.
And you just happen to be
one of the last people
to cross paths with my target.
Apocalypse?
He's been off the grid for a while.
But now one of his Horsemen's
re-emerged on the scene.
Goes by the name of War.
I've been raiding his safe houses.
trying to figure out what
that psychopath's cooking up.
Just turn on the news.
A perfect time for Apocalypse
to ignite his dream war
between humanity and mutants.
His sole aim is to dominate
the evolutionary chain.
If he's not stopped.
he'll wipe out most of the world
and enslave anyone
unlucky enough to survive.
Sounds like a lot of not fun.
You're telling me.
Listen close.
This is dangerous work.
I got no need for students or heroes.
We are soldiers.
Once you're in. you're in.
No questions. no retreat.
Governments will hunt us.
Nowhere will be safe.
But it beats playing video games
while the world's going to hell.
This team got a name?
Mission's simple. team.
We find Apocalypse's Horseman.
we find Apocalypse.
Psylocke. see what you can read.
You picked quite the week
for a duck shoot.
Too many minds.
I can't isolate any of them.
Warren. how's the view from the sky?
No sign.
I'm heading farther north.
Jubilee. Sunspot.
what's with the dancing?
This isn't date night.
Didn't you say "Blend in"?
Unlike that guy.
Green skin. bowl cut.
It's our target. On my 12 o'clock.
Tail him but keep your distance.
Genocides. massacres. civil wars.
Guy's got more blood on his hands
than history books can count.
Cable. we lost him.
Anyone got eyes from above?
He's making for an alleyway up north.
He's on to us. I need backup now.
What the...
Don't let War get away.
I might know a short cut or two.
"Might" isn't exactly reassuring.
Just wait for my signal.
Now!
Whoo! X-Force 1.
Creepy Apocalypse Zombies 0.
Sweet dreams.
You fight a battle
that cannot be won.
Against the dawn of an age
that cannot be stopped.
"When He-Who-Never-Dies
will cull the weak from the herd."
"Until only the strong survive."
Yes. we know.
You forsake your master. heretic.
But in due time.
you will face his judgment.
He won't speak willingly.
Apocalypse made loyal servants of us all.
I thought telepaths were supposed to...
Have manners?
That might be how your professor did it
but we don't have time for pleasantries.
Well done. well done.
Well done. War.
Open it.
Soon the Old World shall finally pass away
and together we shall forge a new one
in Fire and Blood!
His mind's booby-trapped.
Like a wall of diamonds blocking me.
I stole as much as I could.
Put him out of his misery
before he hurts anyone else.
Whoa. what?
War is a Horseman.
He cannot be saved.
-You were.
-Yes. by Rogue.
And now she's gone.
Trust me. Jubilee. this isn't murder.
It's mercy.
But we could call the authorities.
He might have more to say.
We are the authority.
You didn't have to kill him back there.
We could have gotten more out of him.
Last I checked.
I give the orders around here.
And last I checked. we were
trying to stop a ruthless mass murderer.
not steal from his playbook.
I helped you get the Horseman.
But if you want anything else.
I'm gonna need a little less killing.
Take it that means you've got a hunch.
Psylocke said the Horseman's mind
was blocked by a psychic wall.
and saw diamonds.
I know only one telepath
who's got a thing for diamonds.
Saw her turn into one in Genosha.
Emma Frost.
Well. what do we have here?
A stray. a firecracker and a pit-bull.
Not gonna lie.
If X-Force is going to crash my party.
that dashing Warren Worthington
is more my type.
Though I wouldn't mind making you bark.
-Woof.
-Ew.
Your exploits in Rio
spun up a lot of chatter.
You all are quite the party crashers.
We're wasting time.
The X-Men saved your life
in Genosha.
As well as their heroic image. And?
You owe us. We need information.
We all have wants.
Some of us can just afford them
more easily.
Believe you and bowl-cut
were business partners.
You want to tell us a little
about the nature of that business?
Oh. you're serious?
And you're terrified.
Listen. my dears. I'm a matchmaker.
I help demand meet supply
and take a small cut.
I don't get curious.
So please pack up your blame and...
Just tell us what the Horseman wanted.
He needed to smuggle cargo
into Switzerland.
Got an address?
Of course.
But as I said.
I'm in it for a cut.
So where shall we start the bidding?
Horsemen tech.
Everything Apocalypse needs to convert
mutants into his loyal death squad.
No. Cable. this equipment.
it's far more advanced
than any he ever used on me.
The crates are empty.
If Apocalypse was here. he's long gone.
Whatever Apocalypse
is working on.
it's already built and moved out.
Bastard no doubt staged the Rio attack
to pull our focus.
You led us to a dead end.
Not dead. but an end?
Yes.
X-Factor.
Drop your weapons.
By order of the United States Government.
-You really are a total...
-Sorry.
In these times. amnesty is everything.
You've got two options.
Stand down or be put down.
Unlike you.
X-Force doesn't answer to anyone.
Least of all. Uncle Sam's mutant lapdogs.
Traitors!
Don't bring a gun to a fist-fight.
Well done. But I only need one of me.
Yawn.
Eat this. big guy!
Polaris. help!
Wrap this up.
Polaris. what are you doing?
We're not the bad guys here.
It's not about good or bad.
It's about authority.
And you don't have any.
I'm an X-Man trying to help.
X-Men. remember them?
Ya used to be one.
You're not an X-Man.
You're on a secret assassination
hit squad.
You don't understand.
You have no idea the danger coming.
Release us!
Move! Move to the jet!
Jubilee! No!
Move it. or we're toast.
Get off me! We have to go back for her.
Come on. The guy left you high and dry
without a second thought.
I mean. do you really
wanna take the fall for this?
Just tell us what Cable's up to
and where he's going.
Jubilee. I'm sure you didn't mean
to get caught up in all of this.
You're just a kid.
Look. X-Factor
was formed by the Government
to legally police threats.
mutant and human.
We're just trying to keep order
by easing tensions.
Help us help you.
You mean help you
round up mutants?
That's your plan for easing tensions?
With the violent bigots
who are attacking us?
You guys are gonna have to bring in
a telepath 'cause I'm not talking.
You have one of those
on your C-list roster?
Knock-off Cyclops?
Maybe give us a minute. Alex.
I'll do better than that.
I'll give you two.
This is who you left the X-Men
to work with?
I could say the same for you.
working for a vigilante merc like Cable.
Okay. his methods are definitely
a little questionable.
I'm working on that.
But at least he's on a mission
worth fighting for.
Sorry I can't say the same for you.
We've all lost a lot. Jubilee.
I was a foster kid
when the Professor took me in.
The X-Men became my family too.
Now they're gone
and you and I are all that's left.
We're all doing our best to honor them.
If the Professor was here.
do you think he'd be proud
of what you're doing?
Heck. I'm wondering
if he'd be proud of me.
Got a fresh cell for ya. hotshot.
Why do we have to stay here?
We're going back for Jubilee.
Relax. Da Costa.
I'm buying us time to regroup.
Your girl can handle her own
against the mutant mall cops.
What if she can't?
Look. I've trained you both.
She'll be fine.
We need to stay on the trail
and find Apocalypse and
his Frankenstein machine before...
We'll finish the mission.
but not at the cost of our own.
That's not what the X-Men would have done.
Yeah. and look where that got 'em.
She can handle it on her own.
Just because she can do it alone
doesn't mean she should have to.
Mmm...
Come to salt the wound?
Call it payback for reminding me
what I'm in this for.
I can buy you five minutes.
How you use them. that's up to you.
Come on.
♪ Tell me. tell me
what you really want from me ♪
♪ You've got to let me know ♪
♪ I'm falling off
and I need you terribly ♪
♪ One down and one to go ♪
Come in. It's Jubilee. Over.
Can anyone hear me?
Jubes. where are you?
It's cool.
I'm fine. I broke out.
But I've got additional cargo and
I'm definitely gonna need backup.
Cargo? What cargo?
♪ Way to go. way to flip off everyone ♪
Come on.
get to the flight deck. That way.
Land on the south deck
and pick up the kids.
Jubes. what about you?
I'll be fine.
Look alive. team.
♪ I bounce back and I run some more ♪
♪ But this is it
I'm giving up. I'm calling quits ♪
♪ So get down and meet me on the floor ♪
♪ Way to go. way to flip off everyone ♪
Hold it right there.
We got you.
Call for backup.
Hey! What are you doing?
Rogue mutants on the loose.
Requesting X-Factor immediately.
Just follow my lead.
I'm gonna get us out of here.
Wait for my signal.
Go!
♪ Go ♪
♪ Volcano girls. we really can't be beat ♪
♪ Warm us up and watch us blow ♪
♪ But now and then we fail
and we admit defeat ♪
♪ We're falling off. we are watered down
and fully grown ♪
♪ 'Cause I don't wanna go ♪
♪ Leave me lying here ♪
Hold it right there!
Your choice.
It doesn't have to go this way.
Sure doesn't.
Peace out. losers!
♪ 'Cause I don't wanna go ♪
That team's gonna be a problem.
What happened? Where's Jubilee?
Escaped. Any idea how that happened?
X-Force's blatant acts of rebellion
will not be tolerated.
But rest assured.
X-Factor is here to protect
humans and mutants.
And we will not rest until
these fugitives are brought to justice
and prosecuted
to the full extent of the law.
A lot of heat on us.
Congrats. team.
Being national fugitives should really
help us stay under the radar.
We did what needed to be done.
Perhaps. but at what cost?
Less than the cost of doing nothing.
If we're not going to defend the world
Apocalypse wants to destroy.
what's the point of even fighting him?
Hey. you all holding up okay?
-Yeah.
-I know this has been...
She's right. you know.
But Apocalypse is still out there.
Where we're going.
it's no place for a bunch of kids.
Trust me.
Kids are tougher than you think.
Field computer operational. Greetings.
Nathan. everything all right?
Yeah. I'm good.
We should probably get word
to the rest of the Askani.
Let them know to make their way here.
And I think it's way past due
you get to grill your mother and me.
I'm sorry. Nathan. I have to object.
You must send the X-Men
back to their time.
No. not yet.
I don't want 'em to go.
I'm sorry. Apocalypse's defeat here
is only the beginning.
Shadows gather in the past
where history is still unwritten.
If the X-Men do not return.
there may be no future left to protect.
What about protecting my son?
You can't expect us
to just leave him here.
And yet you must.
But you can take heart knowing
he will be protected.
By people who care for him.
Please. we just need more time.
Now. we must be strong. Nathan.
To do what they cannot.
Such is the burden of destiny.
And children.
Computer. time-slide the X-Men.
I love you. son.
Goodbye. Nathan.